These settings directly affect Advanced Color Selector and Color sliders Dockers and the same dialog box appears when the user clicks the settings button in that docker as well. They also affect certain hotkey actions.

This settings menu has a dropdown for Advanced Color Selector, Color Sliders and Color Hotkeys.

== Advanced Color Selector ==
These settings are described on the page for the [[Special:MyLanguage/Advanced_Color_Selector|Advanced Color Selector]].

== Color Sliders ==

These settings are described on the page for the [[Special:MyLanguage/Color_Sliders|Color Sliders]].

Note that for the HSY sliders, you can use the settings in the advanced color selector.

== Color Hotkeys ==
These allow you to set the steps for the following actions:

;Make Brush Color Darker
:This is defaultly set to &lt;kbd>K&lt;/kbd> and uses the &lt;span class="menuchoice">lightness&lt;/span> steps. This uses luminance when possible.
;Make Brush Color Lighter
:This is defaultly set to &lt;kbd>L&lt;/kbd> and uses the &lt;span class="menuchoice">lightness&lt;/span> steps. This uses luminance when possible.
;Make Brush Color More Saturated
:This is defaultly unset and uses the &lt;span class="menuchoice">saturation&lt;/span> steps.
;Make Brush Color More Desaturated
:This is defaultly unset and uses the &lt;span class="menuchoice">saturation&lt;/span> steps.
;Shift Brushcolor Hue clockwise
:This is defaultly unset and uses the &lt;span class="menuchoice">Hue&lt;/span> steps.
;Shift Brushcolor Hue counter-clockwise
:This is defaultly unset and uses the &lt;span class="menuchoice">Hue&lt;/span> steps.
;Make Brush Color Redder
:This is defaultly unset and uses the &lt;span class="menuchoice">Redder/Greener&lt;/span> steps.
;Make Brush Color Greener
:This is defaultly unset and uses the &lt;span class="menuchoice">Redder/Greener&lt;/span> steps.
;Make Brush Color Yellower
:This is defaultly unset and uses the &lt;span class="menuchoice">Bluer/Yellower&lt;/span> steps.
;Make Brush Color Bluer
:This is defaultly unset and uses the &lt;span class="menuchoice">Bluer/Yellower&lt;/span> steps.

[[Category:Preferences]]
