{{ToolIcon|contiguous-select}}

This tool, represented by a magic wand, allows you to make a selection by selecting a point of color. It will select any contiguous areas of a similar color to the one you selected. You can adjust the "fuzziness" of the tool in the tool options dock. A lower number will select colors closer to the color that you chose in the first place.

==Hotkeys and Sticky keys==
*&lt;kbd>R&lt;/kbd> sets the selection to 'replace' in the tool options, this is the default mode.
*&lt;kbd>A&lt;/kbd> sets the selection to 'add' in the tool options.
*&lt;kbd>S&lt;/kbd> sets the selection to 'subtract' in the tool options.
*&lt;kbd>Shift&lt;/kbd> + {{MouseButton|left}} sets the subsequent selection to 'add'. You can release the &lt;kbd>Shift&lt;/kbd> key while dragging, but it will still be set to 'add'. Same for the others.
*&lt;kbd>Alt&lt;/kbd> + {{MouseButton|left}} sets the subsequent selection to  'subtract'.
*&lt;kbd>Ctrl&lt;/kbd> + {{MouseButton|left}} sets the subsequent selection to  'replace'.
*&lt;kbd>Shift&lt;/kbd> + &lt;kbd>Alt&lt;/kbd> + {{MouseButton|left}} sets the subsequent selection to  'intersect'.

{{Note|You can switch the behaviour of the Alt key to use Ctrl instead by toggling the switch in the [[Special:MyLanguage/General_Settings#Tool_options|general settings]]}}

==Tool Options==

;Anti-aliasing
:This toggles whether or not to give selections feathered edges. Some people preffer hard-jagged adges for their selections.
;Fuzziness
:This controls whether or not the contiguous selection sees another color as a border.
;Grow/Shrink selection.
:This value extends/contracts the shape beyond it's initial size.
;Feathering
:This value will add a soft border to the selection-shape.
;Limit to Current Layer
:Activating this will prevent the fill tool from taking other layers into account.

[[Category:Toolbox]]
