The grid brush engine draws shapes on a grid. It helps you produce retro and halftone effects.

If you're looking to setup a grid for snapping, head to [[Special:MyLanguage/Grids and Guides|Grids and Guides Docker]].

=Reference=

==Parameters==

*[[#Brush Size|Brush Size]]
*[[#Particle Type|Particle Type]]
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Blending Modes|Blending Modes]]
*[[#Color Options|Color Options]]
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Opacity &amp; Flow|Painting Mode]]

==Brush Size==
;Grid Width
:Width of the cursor area
;Grid Height
:Height of the cursor area
;Division
:Subdivides the cursor area and uses the resulting area to draw the particles.
;Division by pressure
:The more you press, the more subdivisions. Uses Division as the finest subdivision possible.
;Scale
:Scales up the area.
;Vertical Border
:Forces vertical borders in the particle space, between which the particle needs to squeeze itself. 
;Horizontal Border
:Forces a horizontal borders in the particle space, between which the particle needs to squeeze itself.
;Jitter Borders
:Randomizes the border values with the Border values given as maximums.

==Particle Type==
Decides the shape of the particle.

;Ellipse
:Fills the area with a ellipse.
;Rectangle
:Fills the area.
;Line
:Draws lines from the lower left to the upper right corner of the particle
;Pixel
:Looks like an aliased line on high resolutions.
:Anti-aliased Pixel
:Fills the area with little polygons.

==Color Options==

;Random HSV
:Randomize the HSV with the strength of the sliders. The higher, the more the color will deviate from the foreground color, with the direction indicating clock or counter clockwise.
;Random Opacity
:Randomizes the opacity.
;Color Per Particle
:Has the color options be per particle instead of area.
;Sample Input Layer.
:Will use the underlying layer as reference for the colors instead of the foreground color.
;Fill Background
:Fills the area before drawing the particles with the background color.
;Mix with background color.
:Gives the particle a random color between foreground/input/random HSV and the background color.

[[Category:Brush Engines{{#translation:}}]]
