__NOTOC__
==Windows==
Windows users can download the latest releases from our [https://krita.org/download/krita-desktop website.]Click on 64bit or 32bit according to the architecture of your OS.  Go to the  [http://download.kde.org/stable/krita/ KDE] download directory to get the portable zip-file version of Krita instead of the setup.exe installer.

{{Warning| 
*Krita requires Windows Vista or newer. 
*INTEL GRAPHICS CARD USERS: IF YOU SEE A BLACK OR BLANK WINDOW: UPDATE YOUR DRIVERS! }}

==Linux==

Many Linux distributions package the latest version of Krita. Sometimes you will have to enable an extra repository. Krita runs fine under on desktop: KDE, Gnome, LXDE -- even though it is a KDE SC application and needs the KDE libraries. You might also want to install the KDE systemsettings module and tweak the gui theme and fonts used, depending on your distributions

=== Nautilus/Nemo file extensions ===
Put here at the beginning, before we start on the many distro specific ways to get the program itself.

Since April 2016, KDE's Dolphin will show kra and ora thumbnails by default, but Nautilus and it's derivatives will need an extension. [http://moritzmolch.com/1749 We recommend Moritz Molch's extensions for XCF, KRA, ORA and PSD thumbnails].

=== Appimages ===
For Krita 3.0 and later, first try out the appimage from the website first. '''90% of the time this is by far the easiest way to get the latest Krita.''' Just download the appimage, and then use the file properties or the bash command &lt;span class="menuchoice">chmod&lt;/span> to make the appimage executable. Double click it, and enjoy Krita. (Or run it in the terminal with ./appimagename.appimage)

 ''# open this terminal into the folder you have the appimage''
 ''# make it executable''
 chmod a+x krita-3.0-x86_64.appimage
 
 ''# run Krita!''
 ./krita-3.0-x86_64.appimage

Appimages are ISOs with all the necessary libraries inside, meaning no fiddling with repositories and dependencies, at the cost of a slight bit more diskspace taken up(And this size would only be bigger if you were using Plasma to begin with).

=== Ubuntu and Kubuntu ===

It does not matter which version of Ubuntu you use, Krita will run just fine. However, by default, only a very old version of Krita is available. You should either use the appimage, or the snap available from Ubuntu's app store.

===OpenSUSE===
The most latest stable builds are available from KDE:Extra repo:
* http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/KDE:/Extra/

&lt;br>
'''Krita is also in the official repos as ''calligra-krita'' , you can install it from Yast.'''

===Fedora===
Krita is in the official repos as '''calligra-krita''' , you can install it by using packagekit (Add/Remove Software ) or by writing the command below in terminal
&lt;code>&lt;nowiki>
yum install calligra-krita&lt;/nowiki>&lt;/code>
Or
&lt;code>&lt;nowiki>
dnf install calligra-krita&lt;/nowiki>&lt;/code> if you are using fedora 22.

===Debian===
The latest version of Krita available in Debian is 2.6. Jessie (stable) has 2.8.5+dfsg-1+b2.

===Arch===
Arch Linux provides krita package in the Extra repository.
You can install Krita by using the command below
&lt;code>&lt;nowiki>pacman -S krita&lt;/nowiki>&lt;/code>
You can install the most recent build of Krita using Yaourt repository with the help of command below
&lt;code>&lt;nowiki>yaourt -S krita-git&lt;/nowiki>&lt;/code>

=OS X=
{{Warning|Mac OSX is very experimental right now and unstable, don't use it for production purpose}}
You can download the latest binary if you want from our [https://krita.org/download/krita-desktop/  website]. It has only been reported to work with Mac OSX 10.9.

=Source=

While it is certainly more difficult to compile Krita from source than it is to install from prebuilt packages, there are certain advantages that might make the effort worth it:

* You can follow the development of Krita on the foot. If you compile Krita regularly from the development repository, you will be able to play withall the new features that the developers are working on.
* You can compile optimized for your processor. Most pre-built packages are built for the lowest-common denominator.
* You will be getting all the bug fixes as soon as possible as well.
* You can help the developers by giving us your feedback on features as they are being developed and you can test bug fixes for us. This is hugely important, which is why our regular testers get their name in the about box just like developers.


Of course, there are also disadvantages: when building from the current development source repository you also get all the unfinished features. It might mean less stability for a while, or things shown in the user interface that don't work. But in practice, there seldom is really bad instability, and if it is, it's easy for you to go back to a revision that does work.

So... If you want to start compiling from source, begin with the latest build instructions from the excellent illustrated [http://www.davidrevoy.com/article193/guide-building-krita-on-linux-for-cats  guide] by David Revoy. 

There is more information and troubleshooting help on the [https://community.kde.org/Calligra/Building Calligra] wiki:

If you encounter any problems, or if you are new to compiling software, don't hesitate to contact the Krita developers. There are three main communication channels:

* irc: irc.freenode.net, channel #krita
* [https://mail.kde.org/mailman/listinfo/kimageshop mailing list]
* [http://forum.kde.org/viewforum.php?f=136 forums ]

[[Category:Getting Started|1]]
