[[File Menu]]


As a native Linux program, Krita allows you to do operations on images without opening the program when using the Terminal. This option is disabled on Windows and OSX because it makes a DBUS connection which triggers firewalls and virus scanners, and we don't want to scare people.

This is primarily used in bash or shell scripts, for example, to mass convert kra files into pngs.

==Export==
This allows you to quickly convert files via the terminal:

&lt;code>krita importfilename --export --export-filename exportfilename&lt;/code>

;krita
:This tells the terminal to use the program Krita.
;importfilename
:Replace this with the filename of the file you want to manipulate.
;--export
:This selects the export option.
;--exportfilename
:This says that the following word is the filename it should be exported to.
;exportfilename
:Replace this with the name of the output file. Use a different extension to change the fileformat.

Example:

&lt;code>krita final.png --export --export-filename final.jpg &lt;/code>

This piece of code takes the file ''file.png'' and saves it as ''file.jpg''.

===PDF export===
Pdf export looks a bit different, using the &lt;span class="menuchoice">--export-pdf&lt;/span> option.

&lt;code>krita final.png --export-pdf --export-filename final.pdf &lt;/code>

This exports the file ''file.png'' as a pdf file.

{{Warning| This has been removed from 3.1 because the results were incorrect. }}

==Open with Custom Screen DPI==
Open Krita with specified Screen DPI.

&lt;code>krita --dpi &lt;dpiX,dpiY>&lt;/code>

For example:
&lt;code>krita --dpi &lt;72,72>&lt;/code>

==Open template==
Open krita and automatically open the given template(s). This allows you to, for example, create a shortcut to Krita that opens a given template, so you can get to work immidiately!

&lt;code>krita --template templatename.desktop&lt;/code>

;--template
:Selects the template option
;templatename.desktop
:All templates are saved with the .desktop extension. You can find templates in the .kde/share/apps/krita/template or in the install folder of Krita.

&lt;code>krita --template BD-EuroTemplate.desktop&lt;/code>

This opens the European BD comic template with Krita.

&lt;code>krita --template BD-EuroTemplate.desktop BD-EuroTemplate.desktop&lt;/code>

This opens the European BD template twice, in seperate documents.

==Print==

&lt;code>krita file.png --print&lt;/code>
Prints the file.



[[Category:Reference Manual]]
