The Settings Menu houses the configurable options in Krita and where you
determine most of the “look and feel” of the application.

Show Dockers
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Show Dockers
    Determines whether or not the dockers are visible. This is a nice
    aid to cleaning up the interface and removing unnecessary “eye-ball
    clutter” when you are painting. If you've got your brush and you
    know you're just going to be painting for awhile why not flip the
    dockers off? You'd be amazed what a difference it makes while you're
    working. However, if you know you're swapping out tools or working
    with layer or any of the other myriad things Krita lets you do then
    there's no point getting caught up in flipping the docks on and off.
    Use you time wisely!

Dockers
~~~~~~~

Dockers

Krita subdivides the access of many of it's features into functional
panels called Dockers. Dockers are small windows that can contain, for
example, things like the Layer Stack, Color Palette or Brush Presets.
Think of them as the painter's palette, or his water, or his brushkit.

Learning to use dockers effectively is a key concept to maximizing your
time using Krita.

Themes
~~~~~~

Krita provides a number of color-themed interfaces or “looks”. The
current set of themes are the following:

-  Dark (Default)
-  Blender
-  Bright
-  Neutral

There is no easy way to create and share themes. The color themes are
defined in the Share > Color Schemes folder where Krita is downloaded.

Configure Shortcuts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Configuring shortcuts is another way to customize the application to fit
you. Whether you are transitioning from another app, like Photoshop or
MyPaint, or you think your own shortcut keys make more sense for you
then Krita has got you covered. You get to the shortcuts interface
through <span class=“menuchoice”>Settings > Configure Krita</span> and
by choosing the <span class=“menuchoice”>Keyboard Shortcuts</span> tab.

To use, just type the **Action** into the Search box you want to
assign/reassign the shortcut for. Suppose we wanted to assign the
shortcut <kbd>Ctrl + G</kbd> to the **Action** of Group Layers so that
every time we pressed <kbd>Ctrl + G</kbd> a new Layer Group would be
created. Use the following steps to do this:

#. Type ''Group Layer"
#. Click on Group Layer and a small inset box will open.
#. Click the Custom radio button
#. Click on the first button and type the <kbd>Control + G</kbd> key
   combination.
#. Click OK

From this point on, whenever you press <kbd>Ctrl + G</kbd> you'll get a
new **Group Layer**.

Manage Resources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    Manage the resources.You can read more about it
    `here <Special:MyLanguage/category:Resources_Management>`__.

Switch Application Language
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    If you wish to use Krita in a different translation.

Configure Toolbars
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Krita allows you to highly customize the Toolbar interface. You can add,
remove and change the order of nearly everything to fit your style of
work. To get started, choose <span class=“menuchoice”>Settings &rarr;
Configure Toolbars</span>

.. figure:: Configure_Toolbars_-_Krita.PNG
   :alt: Configure_Toolbars_-_Krita.PNG

   Configure\_Toolbars\_-\_Krita.PNG

The dialog is broken down into three main sections:

    **The Toolbar**: Choose to either modify the “File” or “Brushes and
    Stuff” toolbars
    **Available Actions:** All the options that can be added to a
    toolbar
    **Current Actions:** All the actions currently assigned and the
    order they are in.

Use the arrows between the **Available** and **Current** actions
sections to move items back and forth and up and and down in the
hierarchy. This type of inclusion/exclusion interface has been around on
PCs for decades so we don't need to go into great detail regarding its
use. What is important though is selecting the correct Toolbar to work
on. The **File** Toolbar allows you to add items between the <span
class=“menuchoice”>New</span>, <span class=“menuchoice”>Open</span> and
<span class=“menuchoice”>Save</span> buttons as well as to the right of
the <span class=“menuchoice”>Save</span> button. The **Brushes and
Stuff** Toolbar,lets you modify anything from the Gradients button over
to the right. This is probably where you'll do most of your editing.

Below is an example of a customized **Brushes and Stuff** Toolbar

.. figure:: Krita_Customized_Toolbar_1.PNG
   :alt: Krita_Customized_Toolbar_1.PNG

   Krita\_Customized\_Toolbar\_1.PNG

Here we've added <span class=“menuchoice”>Select Opaque</span>, <span
class=“menuchoice”>Local Selection</span>, <span
class=“menuchoice”>Transparency Mask</span>, <span
class=“menuchoice”>Isolate Layer</span>, <span class=“menuchoice”>Show
Assistant Previews</span>. This is just an example of a couple of
options that are used frequently and might trim your workflow. This is
what it looks like in the configuration tool:

.. figure:: Configure_Toolbars_-_Brushes_and_Stuff_Custom.PNG
   :alt: Configure_Toolbars_-_Brushes_and_Stuff_Custom.PNG

   Configure\_Toolbars\_-\_Brushes\_and\_Stuff\_Custom.PNG

You'll notice that some of the items are text only and some only icons.
This is determined by whether the particular item has an associated icon
in Krita. You can select anything from the **Available** section and
move it to the **Current** one and rearrange to fit your own workflow.

If you add so many that they won't all fit on your screen at once, you
will see a small chevron icon appear. Click it and the toolbar expands
to show the remaining items.

Toolbars shown.
    Gives a list of toolbars that can be shown.

At this time Krita does not support the ability to create additional
toolbars. The ones available are:

.. figure:: Toolbars_Shown.PNG
   :alt: Toolbars_Shown.PNG

   Toolbars\_Shown.PNG

Although not really advisable, you can turn them off (but why would
you..really?)

`Category:Main Menu <Category:Main_Menu>`__
