A brush that can spray particles around in it's brush area.

=Reference=

==Parameters==

*[[#Spray Area|Spray Area]]
*[[#Spray Shape|Spray Shape]]
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Brush Tips|Brush-tips]] (Used as particle if spray shape is not active)
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Opacity &amp; Flow|Opacity and Flow]]
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Parameters#Size|Size (Parameter)]]
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Blending Modes|Blending Modes]]
*[[#Shape Dynamics|Shape Dynamics]]
*[[#Color Options|Color Options]]
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Parameters#Rotation|Rotation (Parameter)]]
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Parameters#Airbrush|Airbrush]]
*[[Special:MyLanguage/Opacity &amp; Flow#Painting Mode|Painting Mode]]

==Spray Area==
The area in which the particles are sprayed.
;Diameter
:The size of the area.
;Aspect Ratio
:It's aspect ratio: 1.0 is fully circular.
;Angle
:The angle of the spray size: works nice with aspect ratios other than 1.0.
;Scale
:Scales the diameter up.
;Spacing
:Increases the spacing of the diameter's spray.
===Particles===
;Count
:Use a specified amount of particles.
;Density
:Use a % amount of particles.
;Jitter Movement
:Jitters the spray area around for extra randomness.
;Gaussian Distribution
:Focusses the particles to paint in the center instead of evenly random over the spray area.
==Spray Shape==
If activated, this will generate a special particle. If not, the brush-tip will be the particle.

;Shape
:Can be...
*Ellipse
*Rectangle
*Anti-aliased Pixel
*Pixel
*Image

;Width &amp; Height
:Decides the width and height of the particle.
;Proportional
:Locks Width &amp; Height to be the same.
;Texture
:Allows you to pick an image for the &lt;menu choice>image shape.

==Shape Dynamics==
;Random Size
:Randomizes the particle size between 1x1 px and the given size of the particle in brush-tip or spray shape.
;Fixed Rotation
:Gives a fixed rotation to the particle to work from.
;Randomized Rotation
:Randomizes the rotation.
;Follow Cursor Weight
:How much the pressure affects the rotation of the particles. At 1.0 and high pressure it'll seem as if the particles are exploding from the middle.
;Angle Weight
:How much the spray area angle affects the particle angle.

==Color Options==
;Random HSV
:Randomize the HSV with the strength of the sliders. The higher, the more the color will deviate from the foreground color, with the direction indicating clock or counter clockwise.
;Random Opacity
:Randomizes the opacity. 
;Color Per Particle
:Has the color options be per particle instead of area. 
;Sample Input Layer.
:Will use the underlying layer as reference for the colors instead of the foreground color. 
;Fill Background
:Fills the area before drawing the particles with the background color. 
;Mix with background color.
:Gives the particle a random color between foreground/input/random HSV and the background color.

[[Category:Brush Engines{{#translation:}}]]
